---
title: "Webpages & stuff"
date: 2020-2-23
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - Webpages
  - development
---

Since the last few days, I have been working on different things. I was keen on learning web development, thus I started learning about flask from an online tutorial. The beginning was fun as it was about setting up and everything and I was using the WSL on windows to simulate a linux environment, I'm loving the WSL really (Thank you Microsoft!). But it soon became a lot difficult and boring. I was not able to grasp why some things were what they were, I searched for the same but I couldn't find much. I had thought about learning web development for quite sometime now, I wanted to build websites and web apps, and I had thought what better to use than the good old python. Finally, after some days I realized that even if I am using python, I will still have to learn HTML for using anything like flask or django. I remembered about GitHub pages suddenly and hosting static websites on the same. I thought its better that I learn HTML, CSS and JS instead as it will let me write much better websites (and I'll have something to show off to my friends :D ).  
I started learning HTML and CSS from [freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/). The lessons are really short and free, many projects are also suggested which I am keen on building. I learnt HTML and CSS basics in about a day I guess, then I started with something that I had been criticised for the last time. The app I developed for generating random words for pictionary was not that great as it repeated words and many words were obscure, so we had to search for their meanings a lot. My friends also complained that it was only for the PC so it wasn't that portable. So, I had thought I'll make a webpage this time. I started with building a simple page which would just throw a random word and keep a list of words that were generated previously. Then I learnt some advanced CSS tricks and made the site a bit more beautiful. Finally, yesterday, I made the site access a web api for getting word meanings and display the meanings. I learnt a lot about things like CORS, web APIs, and even Javascript in general (given that I haven't officially started learning JS from anywhere).  
Long back, when I went to home a few years back, I had a chat with my elder cousin and he was saying things about building APIs and stuff, it seemed a bit boring at that time but now I realise how helpful a simple web API is. I am thinking of building a web API, but I don't have much ideas on what to built. Give ideas if you have any! 
